All right.
Hello.
Welcome to the last lecture of this section we've learned a ton of stuff about locations and maps we've
learned about how to move between one activity in the next even passing data between those two things.
And so this is going to be the lecture where we bring it all together.
Right.
We want to take all these things and combine it into this one app that we're going to call memorable
places.
So the idea with memorable places is that you want to be able to save some places that you've been before
and kind of put them in a list and you can always go back and check them out on the map.
You can add them through the map but it's basically you know if you're saying these are my favorite
places to travel or these are where all my friends live whatever it is you want to save some memorable
places into your app so the app looks like this.
It starts with a list view here if you go ahead and click add a new place.
It's going to take you to a map view and currently show you where you are on that map.
But you know you can always move around in.
For example if the user's location does change like let's go ahead and update this to go a little bit
further there look at that.
It moves us all of a sudden to a new place.
But let's say you know we want to add something to this out like we're going to go over here.
There's something really memorable to us in Western New York so if we click do a long click like this
long press what it's going to do is it's going to say location saved.
It's going to add a new marker and if we click on this it's going to get the address of our current
location.
And so not only did it add it here on the map in that location but if you hit the back button.
Now all of a sudden it's one of our memorable places.
And if we go ahead and tap on this memorable place it'll take us back there and we can see you know
get back to those places that we really care about.
So that's what this app is.
In a nutshell there's a couple of things that you're going to have to learn on your own like how to
do the long press.
There are also there's going to be some situations where if you try and get the address of something
like If I try and get the address of this river let's see if it worked.
Yeah so I've written it so that if you can't get a proper address that you should just add a time code
to say when it is that you added this.
So I want you to be able to handle that situation.
You don't have to do the time thing if you don't want to.
But I think that's probably a good way to handle that.
OK.
So because this is sort of wrapping up everything that we've learned all and one app really really recommend
that you do this challenge on your own before you watch the rest of this.
So please go give this the old college try everything you've got.
You got stuck.
Google it.
You know ask for help whatever it is that you need but ultimately you can always come back and watch
this lecture.
But best of luck I believe in you go get it.
All right let's go ahead and get started here by creating a new Android studio project.
I'm going to go ahead and call this memorable places.
Feel free to call it whatever you like.
And looks like an API MT activity we're going eventually add another activity which is going to be one
of those Google Maps activities but for the first one we just want to go ahead and leave it as is.
So with our app opening up here I think the first step that we've got to do is we've got to fill out
our first activity to have that list view and be able to add that top item in the list view that you
know that says add an additional place.
So let's go ahead and move into the visual side of things and let's get a list view out here.
So I'll delete the existing text view that we have and I'll just go ahead and drag and drop a list view
and it looks like it's a pretty good place.
Let me just go ahead and add constraints everywhere to sort of lock in that position that we have also
need to give it a proper ID so I'll just go ahead and call that list for you.
Okay.
And I always wondered that about Android studio seems like whenever you add the idea all sudden these
things magically appear it's kind of interesting how it works but whatever.
All right so let's go ahead and move into our main activity and in here we want to go ahead and get
access to this list view that we just created so let's type out we want a list view that we are going
to call list view will be to find view by ID card.
Indeed it Westview excellent and you've probably done this four or five times now you should be really
comfortable with this.
We just want to fill out an array list and then an array adapter.
Get that into the list view and then also do an on click listener.
So let's start first with the array list.
So we're going to make a new array list and we want this to be a bunch of strings so the first option
is going to be saying hey go ahead and add new place and then the other ones are going to be the names
of the places so we'll go ahead and call this places.
We're going to set this equal to a new array list again an array list of strings.
All right once we've got that place in the same places that add and this is just where we're going to
add our very first one which is going to be the capital add a new place.
All right.
So that gives the user an option to say oh I can pick this one and then I can add something new to this
app here.
All right then we're going to need an array adapter.
So we'll go ahead and grab that call this simply array adapter will be equal to a new adapter.
And with this couple of things that we want to pass in here so we're going to do this for the context
and let's get to Android.
Dogs are not lay out aren't simple list item 1.
And from there we want to go ahead and grab the places array that we have.
OK.
So there's that array adapter.
Next step for us we've got to connect the list for you and the ray adapter together so we'll get access
to our list view.
We'll say that set adapter and we simply just throw in our raid Apter inside of there.
All right.
Now with that in place I mean visually this would all work out and let's go ahead and get a run going
so that we can at least get the emulator up and go in then we need to make it so that when someone taps
on one of these items in the list view that we can display some information or eventually take them
to the next activity.
So run and type out list view dot and we want to do set item on click listener or set on item click
listener.
And this is looking for a new adapter view on item click listener.
Boom provides all this great stuff for us and for the time being let's just go ahead and do a simple
text message.
So we'll say toast that make text pass and this for the context as far as what to print out.
Let's go ahead and show what it is that they selected so will do integer dot to string and let's pass
and I and then
let's see yes because I'm going to be the number of the ones that they pick.
Just want to make sure I'm doing the right thing here.
You've got to show how long we want to show this toast.
I always like the short one and oh.
Almost forgot we got to do our show.
So that actually shows up when we run this.
OK.
So let's go ahead and see something's not happy here.
OK so we said for this I think it's because we're in this on item click listener we have to say main
activity dot this and that's going to.
There we go.
Now we've got the correct context there.
All right so with that let's go ahead and run this and see what we get on our emulator.
Excellent.
So here we have a list for you.
There's only one item in this list for you but if I tap on it boom shows me that that was item zero
in the list view.
Great.
So off to an awesome start really the next step for us.
If someone taps on at a new place we want to take them to the next activity right.
So we need to make it next activity.
So let's go up to endorse studio file.
You want to go down here to activity and we could go to the gallery to pick what we want but if we see
the Google maps here which unfortunately we don't I guess we will have to go to the gallery.
Let's go ahead and pick this Google Maps activity and we can go ahead and leave this name because you
know before I had said if you have main to activity that's kind of a bad name but maps activity that's
pretty descriptive of what's going on here.
So I think it's good to leave that name as is.
So we'll go ahead and hit finish there so that this gets added to our project now because we've gone
ahead and added Google maps we've got to work with our API.
That means we need to add our API key which we've done for previous projects but we need to go ahead
and grab that.
So I'm going to go open one of our recent projects and then open up the map and location demo.
Let's do it in a new window.
I just need to get this key and then copy and paste it.
So again I set it up so that the key would use would be available for any type of app in any situation
which security wise is not great if you put in your app on the App Store you don't want to do that.
But when you're working on a bunch of projects like this that can be a good thing.
So we open up our other project here and we want to get to where we have our maps and I'm not seen that
file where we list out information.
Let's see where this is or Google Maps API.
This is undervalues.
OK.
So go here undervalues There we go Google Maps API and I'll go ahead and copy my key and I got that
whole thing so I can X out of that project and then I'll come paste it in here.
Now looks good will save and I can X out of that file I don't think we're going to have to access that
again.
And once we get that in place let's now make it so that instead of just doing a text message showing
what item they selected let's make it so that it actually does an intent and move over to the next activity.
So we'll go do our intent code.
We're going to make a new intent.
And with this we've got to provide a little bit of information.
So the first thing is we've got to provide a context to get application context and then we need to
say that we want to go to the maps activity class.
Great then with this intent we want to be able to let the next activity know what it is that we selected.
So we're going to say intent put extra.
Remember this is how we can add a little bit of extra information here.
So with this we have to give a name for our extra.
So let's go ahead and call this place number.
This is just something I made up that I think is a good name you can choose whatever you'd like there.
And then we want to pass forward some information so let's go ahead and pass the integer and the integer
that we're trying to pass is I.
Because as you know whatever item in the list view that they selected.
So go ahead put a semi-colon there.
Now that we've got content with the extra inside of there representing what item in the list view they
selected we can go ahead and say start activity and put the intent right in there.
So with that we want to go ahead and write a little bit of code to make sure that we're getting this
information.
On the other side of things.
So let's go to our maps activity.
And while we're here I'm going to get rid of some of this commented out code.
It just is kind of taking up space here I like to keep things really clean and let's write some code
in the on map ready we could have done this in on create but I think you know for most of our stuff
we're going to want to wait until the maps are all ready to rock and roll.
So inside of here I want to go grab the intent.
So I'll say capital intent with the name of intent is equal to yet intent.
And after that we want to go ahead and display a little text message so we'll say toast mate Tex.
Go ahead pass this for the context as far as the actual text.
This is where we want to provide whatever it is that they selected.
And so we're going to do.
Intent dot get integer extra or extra.
We've got to provide the name which was like to kind of copy and paste to make sure I didn't do any
spelling mistakes.
So I got a copy that come back and paste and then we have to you know provide a default value here just
in case we get something back and it didn't come through properly so it's put zero there.
But this is looking for a string and we're providing that right now.
So we're going to go ahead and just say integer to string and we'll go ahead and wrap that all in parentheses
can and we've accidentally deleted our intent in there.
So we get the intent integer.
We convert that into a string and that's what's going to display in the toast.
And again we just want length short go ahead and show that bam looks great.
All right.
So let's go ahead and run this.
Ideally what's going to happen here is someone's going to top on that tap on that very first item.
It's going to then display that it was item 0.
While it's showing the map that's kind of the big goal that we're aiming towards there.
So let's go ahead and wait for our emulator friends here.
There it goes
and once we're here we'll tap on this and look at that we have a new activity is showing zero and we
have a map here which is pretty great.
We also have a marker showing in Sydney which is not exactly what we're looking for so we'll come back
and delete that in just a second but we've got some other things that we've got to do here.
All right.
So it was awesome to know that we got this information to come through but now that we know that the
information is coming through we probably don't need to do a text message anymore.
Instead the big thing that we need to do is an if statement to see if they had picked the first item
or if they had picked something else.
And so with that let's go ahead and I'm going to delete everything except for this intent.
Get into extra Well keep that code there and we're going to use this to do a little bit of an IF statement
to see if the extra that we got back is equal to zero.
So we're going to say if it's around this thing in parentheses and do our curly brackets and we'll say
if it is equal to zero then we know that they picked the very first item.
And in this case that means we want to zoom in on user location.
OK.
So we're kind of setting the table of where it is that we want to move next.
Now in order to start working with all the map stuff remember our constant are the thing that we've
done forever and ever.
Location Manager Location listener.
Let's go ahead and get that stuff set up so up here at the top of the class I guess I'll do it right
here by the Google map.
We want to get a location manager that will just call location manager and get that set up.
I don't know why that's not tabbed over.
Let's go ahead and do that.
We also want a location listener.
And let's call that location listener lowercase just like that once that's in place we're going to want
to have a function or a method that is going to allow us to center in on a particular location.
And if we pass it a string that it will display a title for that particular location.
So let's go ahead and just type out.
Public void.
And again we're just making up a name here.
So there's nothing special about this but I think a pretty descriptive name is center map on location.
And you don't have to do this but it's typically good etiquette for if you're going to do the name of
a method or a function that has multiple words in it you capitalize the first letter of the additional
words not the first word there but you can see we've got Center map on location this is called camel
case.
So with this we got to go ahead and take in two parameters.
The first one is a location object that we'll just call location and then the next one is going to be
a title which should be a string so say string title.
And with that we've got our function but we've got to write some code inside of there so first step
for us is we've got to create a lat long and we'll call this user location and we're going to say that
this is equal to a new lat long.
And inside of here we just got to pass a location get latitude and location dot get longitude.
All right so that I'll go ahead and set that up.
Then we want to make sure we clear the map so that there's nothing going on inside of there so we'll
do our map clear.
Boom that's easy enough.
Then we want to take our map all say and map here and this is where we want to add a marker to it.
So say add marker and inside of your we'll say we need a new marker options.
Dot position and you can see it's looking for a lat long.
And so will pass in user location.
And on this we're going to set a title as well sort of a title and we're going to go ahead and pass
whatever the title happens to be gay.
So we've added that new marker.
Well we cleared the map.
We added the marker.
Now we want to go ahead and do a proper zoom in on that location.
So I'll say map dot move camera.
And here we want to say capital camera and we want camera update factory dot new lat long zoom.
Excellent.
And that will pass in first the user location and then we want to pass in some number between 1 and
20.
It's really up to you of what you think the right number is here.
Let's go ahead and try out 10 maybe that's a good sort of middle ground there.
Ken So we're getting to a better place here still got a lot to go so we have this option function we
need to call this at some point so we can go ahead and center that so let's move now to our concrete
method.
Right.
Or excuse me we decided we were going to do this on the on map ready so let's go ahead and do that.
But after we've gone and said OK they've picked item zero.
So when you go zoom in on the users location well then we need to start getting our location stuff set
up so the first thing is let's set up the location manager and we're going to say location manager is
equal to this get system service and the service that we're looking for is Capitol context dot location
service.
Excellent.
And then along with that when we've got to provide here this is going to be a location manager.
Excellent Kate.
Next step for us is we got to set up the location listener so we'll say location listener is equal to
a new location listener and it's going to provide all these new methods for us.
So inside of here the on location changed.
This is where we would want to call that center map on location.
So look at that we simply just type out the name of it.
We have to provide a location which we have right there so his passion pass and location and then we
have to provide a title of what we want the little marker to be so in this case I think we can just
simply call it your location.
So we're getting all that much closer still a little bit to go here so we're going to have to write
the code in order to make it so that when someone you know either says yes or no to requesting the information
that we can handle that correctly so appear after we've done the senator map stuff.
We're going to do a on request permission result.
Again this could be for any permission.
You know we're pretty sure here that it's going to be for our location stuff because we're not asking
for anything else but just know that this can be for other permissions.
And so first we're going to check and see if we got something.
So we're going to set up an if statement and then here we're going to say Grant results dot length check
and see if that is greater than zero.
And if it is we're going to say OK that and the other thing that we want to check is say all right we're
going to tap and a great results and since we know something's in there we're going to get the very
first item.
And we're going to check and see if this is equal to package manager dot.
Permission granted.
So that will ensure that they gave us permission there.
Next we need to go ahead and check that we've got permission one more time for the location.
So this is just checking the general permission was granted.
Next we're going to make sure that they have the location permission so this is kind of confirming that
we got the right one.
So we'll do another statement here.
But in this one we want to ask.
OK context compact dot check self permission.
And with that we're going to go ahead and provide this as a context and then we want Capitol manifest
got permission not access fine location.
OK.
So we'll go ahead and put that all close up that parentheses there.
And we want to see if this is equal to capital package manager got permission granted.
That's going to tell us if we're ready to go with this location stuff and if it is then we'll simply
just type out.
OK.
Location Manager.
Request location updates.
We're going to have to go ahead and pass in our location manager that GPS provider we'll go ahead and
do 00 because we want all the information and then we'll pass on our lower case location.
Listener.
All right so that's gone ahead and set all of that stuff up for us.
But let's go ahead and move back down to our not on create I keep thinking that's where we want to go.
But it's the on map ready because we don't want to do any of this stuff.
So Google Maps has had the opportunity to get the map set up and honestly this doesn't really take that
long but it's just really crucial that you do this here rather than create because it can get kind of
messy there.
So after we have set up the location listener which it looks like I'm missing a semi-colon for after
we've done that.
We're going to go ahead and do the check to see hey you know do we have permission if not we need to
go request it blah blah blah which you know would take us up to this piece of code.
So down here below we are going to say If so this if statement we're just checking to see if we have
access which really it's basically this function we'd have to just change one thing.
So we're going to go ahead and just copy what we have here can and will replace it there and we're checking
to see hey if we don't have permission to do so if we don't have the permission to use the user's location
or in that case that's where we would want to go ahead and get request information there.
So we're going to go ahead and type out to this well I guess we could work with the opposite situation
of saying hey you know if they do have access I guess we could just do this well this is kind of different
than we've done it before but I think it's good to kind of explore this way so we'll say you know if
they do move that back to the equal so if they do have permission then we'll just request location updates
like we've done before but if they don't that's what we'll do inside of this.
Else this is where we'd say activity compact dot request permissions and we're going to go ahead and
provide this for the context then we want to do a new string array.
Right.
And then with this we're going to do our curly brackets and inside of there will say capital manifest
permissions that access fine location.
OK.
Now we'll go ahead and provide one there for the request code.
All right so we've got all of that there so that's good to go.
The next thing that we want to do is so if we were able to get access to their location right in the
top part of this statement we would want to request the location updates but we would also want to go
ahead and get the last known location and get everything set up.
So let's go ahead and type out the code for that we want a location that will call last known location
or we're going to set this equal to location manager Donte get last known location out to provide a
little bit inside of here.
Just go ahead and say location manager.
We want the Capitol GPS GPS provider.
Excellent.
So that gives us the last known location so then it makes it very easy for us to just say Senator map
on location.
Go ahead and pass on our last known location.
And again we'll go ahead and just type in the string your location.
OK.
So that'll pass through the appropriate information that we need in order to make that work.
So we're basically there with our app.
Let's go ahead and give this a run.
See it is what we get.
I mean before we do that there's one last thing that I thought about and that's that you know let's
just kind of walk us through for a second.
So this activity opens up.
We come down to this on map ready.
Right and we go ahead and we check the intent and say OK if it was the very first one that must mean
that they want the user's location so we set up the manager the listener right.
And then we come down here and we check and say hey do we have access for this so if we don't have access
it's going to skip over to this statement.
And then in which we're going to request for permission so that it's going to ask the user for those
permissions which then once the user says yes or no is going to come to this on request permission result.
So if they did give us permission we will make it through both of these statements and we'll say OK.
Location Manager we're going to request.
Location updates.
So as we get updates you know it's going to be called the center map on location.
But for the very first time we'd want it to go ahead and get whatever you know the user's last known
location was.
So let's just go ahead and copy the same code that we have here it just paces up top for when we you
know had just realized that we got permission for the very first time.
This is going to help make the app just look that much smoother.
OK.
And one more little thing that I noticed here is down below.
We still have the code for in Sydney on the map.
We don't really need do that anymore so let's go ahead and get rid of our Sydnee code.
But thank you google You've provided some awesome example code for us.
All right.
We've done a lot of typing without any testing which usually is bad news.
As a programmer so let's go ahead and run this and see what our emulator looks like.
I can't emphasize that enough.
It's if you ever go for like a half hour without ever testing your code it probably something's broken
and you're going to it you're not going to know at what point you broke stuff it's usually good to build
a little bit of that bit a little bit of that.
So I'm going to try and practice what I preach a little bit more that I've just realized wow we've we've
got a long time.
So here comes the app.
I'm going to get our menu up here ready because I know that this is coming here in just a second.
So let's go ahead and tap on at a new place.
Look at that and ask us the question and I'm going to go with head and say yes please allow the location.
Oh we have gotten the app to crash.
That's not a good thing.
Let's go ahead and test out see what we've got here.
And look at this.
We did not request the user permission for this code.
Right.
So I mean we wrote the code to ask for the permission but inside of our manifest we never know.
We did ask for access find location.
Let's go ahead.
Failure delivering result.
Intense
request permission has extras to activity blah blah blah time to vote for chool method.
Hmm.
Let me go ahead inspect this.
So I found what the air was and essentially it came down to a null pointer exception.
So it has to do with.
You'll notice here it says maps activity that Java on line 31.
So on this location object it's trying to get its latitude and longitude right.
But this location object is coming through as normal and so.
And that's because I think here on the device I didn't hit send before we did things.
So the way to fix this is we should probably do a check before we go here we're going to say go ahead
and just check and see if location is null so we're going to say if location is not equal to know then
go ahead and do all of the stuff down below.
So go ahead provide that there.
That should fix things for us and let's go ahead and see if that's the case.
So I think on an actual device it would have a location but you know I guess we can't be sure this is
probably good that we caught this ere now so that you know in case something like this happens we know
now how to handle it.
So it's at a new place.
So take us to the map view and look at that.
Didn't zoom anywhere I think because we didn't have a previous location.
But if I go ahead and add one boom look at that.
It puts one in New York.
And if we go ahead and tap on this it says hey this is your location game and that Zoom seems pretty
good.
I might want to go a little bit closer.
I'm trying to think.
I can't remember what direction is closer zoomed in.
I think if I do like a six that would be more zoomed in let's go ahead and try that out.
But and I mean that's totally up to you trying to decide what the Xoom should be.
But let's go ahead add new place and look at that because we've added the location before it was able
to do that without any errors on the 6 zoom more out so let's try something like 16.
I should be closer.
I just think it be cool to see a little bit you know like the street names and stuff like if someone
has a location that their favorite.
I mean I'm sure they'd love to see a little bit more detail than what we're providing now.
I'm just nit picky me that's a little bit closer than what I was thinking.
So let's maybe try 12.
This is not a big deal but just kind of you know for me I want the thing that I think looks best.
And as an app developer that's what you get.
You get to do what you think is best for the app.
So let's go ahead and set this and you know like that I can see you know other parts of New York but
I'm saying you know this is my favorite part right here.
All right the next step for us in this app is we've got to make it so that if someone wants to add a
new place to their map like let's say you know what I really want Highland Park to be a part of this.
If we click into do the long press here we want to be able to have that location and we want to get
the address for that place and we want to add it to our list so if we hit the back button it's going
to show up out there.
So let's go ahead and attack that now the first thing that we got to figure out how to do is what code
do we need in order to make it so that you know we can do a long press and we have Google Maps show
us the correct thing.
Well again this is probably something you had to google and again I'm going to show you how I went about
finding this information.
So I just kind of Googled something like Android Google Maps ad location long press.
I think maybe we could get a little more specific if we go ahead and mark it as a marker rather than
a location.
So a marker there.
You want to as much as you can provide specific terms that's going to help you get to the right place
so it looks like maybe this could be a pretty good answer here.
Let's go ahead and see what kind of information they got.
Yeah I think this looks pretty good so this is telling us we've got to set a long listener on our map.
And then we've got to implement this lat long thing here.
There's a couple of more things we're going to talk about here in a second the big one is we've got
to make sure that this implements this code up here.
But with this information let's go ahead and bring this into our code.
So let's get back to android studio and we want to be inside of our maps activity so we can see already
this public class implements on map ready callback meaning that this is going to appropriately handle
map functions here and you can see that this gets set here inside when we say map fragment doget map
a sync when it says this it's talking about this class and by saying this we're saying yeah we're able
to implement that.
So if we wanted to do something similar here like if we wanted to support our map and let's go ahead
and do it down once we have the actual Google map if we go ahead and type out a map and then let's go
look at the code right we have to do dot set on map long click listener who want a mouthful and map
data set on map long click listener.
Like I said that's a mouthful and we say this was going to give us an error because it's saying hey
this thing you know it doesn't implement the correct on map long click listener.
So if we just go ahead and put a comma here and type out on map long click listener.
All of a sudden if we go down here this error goes away.
But then we get an air up here because it says well hey you said you would be able to handle on map
on click Lisner stuff but you don't implement the correct method so if we go ahead and just hover over
this click this little box that we say implement methods will say Yep go ahead let's implement this
one.
And so that we'll finally get rid of that Air Force.
OK.
So now we're in this on map long click which is what we have exactly here and it's showing us the steps
that we need in order to implement this right so that someone can come in and say you know hey I want
to go add something to my app so let's go ahead and talk about what it is that we need to do.
We'll go back to android studio here.
So a couple of pieces of information.
First one is we've got to get access to the map which we can just get with a map.
And on this we're going to do add marker and the things that we're going to pass and there is first
new capital marker options and we'll say Dot position and you see it looking for a lat long which conveniently
that's what we get right there so I'll pass on that lat long after we've done that.
We want to set a title on this.
So we'll say title and we're just going to pass in some sort of string like you know maybe your new
memorable place.
Okay.
Well go ahead and do a semi-colon here there and that should finish it up.
So once we have that in place let's go ahead and see if we can't get this to work.
So we'll hit run on the emulator here.
I always get mixed up about whether to call it a simulator or an emulator.
I mean I think both are talking about essentially the same thing here.
But does say Android emulator so we should probably roll with that there.
Canyon will just give it one more second here.
Sometimes it's really quick sometimes it's not at all but we'll go ahead and wait to see what happens.
There we go.
Finally opening up for us.
So we'll say we're going to add a new place and this takes us to our beautiful map view so let's say
you know I want to add that Highland Park along click here.
Look at that.
We successfully added a marker and if we tap on this it's got the name of your new memorable place.
So that's an OK name but we'd rather have it list out an actual address of what this thing is and so
in order to do that we've got to write our geo location code right.
So where we're sort of breaking that down.
So what we're going to do is we're going to write a little bit of code here to sort of handle how we
want this all to go down.
The first thing that we got to do is we've got to get a geocoder.
So we'll just call that geocoder this is equal to a new capital geocoder and this is looking for a context
so we'll say get application context and then it's looking for a locale.
So we'll go ahead and just say look how dot get default.
All right.
So that gets our dear geocoder all set up then.
What we're ultimately trying to build here is a string that we're going to call address and we'll just
set the sequel to an empty string and the idea is that we'll take this address and we're going to instead
of say in your new memorable place we'll put address right in there.
OK.
So once we've got that then here comes the big part where we try and go get you know the location and
turn that into it address all that stuff and we're going to need a try catch for this so I'm going to
go ahead and just set that up.
So there's our try.
And here's our catch do the curly brackets.
Got to take in an exception that we'll call the let's do classic easy print stack trace.
Excellent.
And then as far as this try block here this is what we want to go to for.
So we got to go grab the list of addresses from the geocoder and say this should be a list of address
objects that we'll just call list addresses.
And this is going to be equal to our geocoder dot get from location.
And this is where we'll pat past the lat long dot latitude and the lat long dot longitude.
OK so we've got those in place still got one more thing to add here.
The max results.
We only want one of those so we'll go ahead and pass that and give it a semi-colon.
So it looks like with the list I had to put enter there so we get the proper importation.
All right.
Next step for us is we've got to go see if we got some information back so we'll do an if statement
to check that.
So the first thing that we want to check and see if list addresses is.
So say as long as this thing is not no and the next thing that we want to check is there's actually
some results in there.
There should only be one but we'll say the list addresses that size.
And we're going to say as long as this thing is greater than zero meaning we have at least one that
means that we can move forward.
OK.
Now as far as the address goes before we've gone on we've grabbed like the state the city the zip code
the address I think in this case we really just want the street address we don't want these to be like
really long things.
So let's just go ahead and worry about that part we might get you know maybe a little bit more of like
the address there's a couple of pieces that we can grab there so this is what we're going to do first
we're going to check for something called the thoroughfare.
So we're going to say if you check and see that this gets here so it's a list addresses and we want
to do it get the 0 item right.
That very first one and we want to get the thoroughfare OK.
And we're just checking to see that this thing is not equal to no.
So this is not equal to no let's go ahead and check and see if we can get that sub one.
I'm a little bit cautious about whether we should do this or not because it's different in different
places in the world.
But for this one we're going to do get sub thoroughfare going go and see how this works and if we have
the the thoroughfare the Sobero fair what we're going to do is we're going to take her address string
but we're going to do a plus equals and we're going to add on list addresses that get that 0 item and
then from there we're going to say get get sub thoroughfare and we're going to add that on first so
add that plus a space here so that we can you know have the thoroughfare from there.
And I guess maybe this will be a little bit safer we'll just go ahead here and say address plus equals
and this is where we'll go ad instead of the Get Sub-Zero fair let's copy this.
Paste it or just do get thoroughfare so I guess in this situation if for instance there was no Sobero
thoroughfare it would just jump to that line so I guess this will be a pretty safe way to handle this.
OK.
But with this information this should be enough for us right.
That we should be able to pass this address down and get that.
So let's go ahead and give this a try here see if this all works out.
So well go ahead and wait for emulate a friend.
I think this one launched much faster than last time.
And we want to add a new place and we let's go to our favorite Highland Park here so go ahead and click
on that.
Click on it and
it's not showing me anything there.
So that's not what we are looking for.
Let's try a different location here.
OK.
So we were able to get you know 49 street there.
Let's try a different location.
You know where we're getting addresses so we need to have some situation to be able to handle this.
Right.
Google Maps is not able to find a location.
So in that situation let's go ahead and go back to our old friend Google here just you know how do we
maybe what we could do to represent this is we could get the date in time when someone had selected
this so you know if you were trying to google this figured out I would say maybe Android Java yet or
not even get well say Android Java date current date and time to string.
Right because that's ultimately what we want to do we want to get the current date and time turn it
into a string.
So let's go ahead and see what we've got here.
Java calendar get instance get tied him.
It doesn't exactly turn into a string.
Ooh this looks fairly promising here if you want to get that Dharma's specific pattern you could use
the following.
OK.
I think this is more of what we're looking for.
So the code that we're going to add now is you know the situation where you know we want to check and
see hey if there's nothing in the address if it's empty we want to be able to add our own things.
So what we're going to do is we'll come down here and let's set up an if statement right before we add
this marker and let's check in on address and we'll say address equals and we're going to see if it's
equal to an empty string and if it is that's where we're going to want to you know go get the date and
time and put this into it's own thing here.
So if we go back and look at the code here we need something called a simple date format.
So just type out simple date format and there's two of these there's an android one in a Java one.
Let's go ahead and just go with the Java one.
So I'm going to call this STF for simple date format.
We're going to say that this is equal to a new capital simple date format and inside of here this is
where we've got to pass a string of like how we want the time to be represented.
So let's go ahead and just try the standard that they recommended here in the answer.
We can go and manipulate this here in a second.
So once we've got that in place let's go ahead and take our address string and we're say address plus
equals and we want to add this time as a string.
So all we have to do is SDF dot format and we need to pass at some sort of date so we're going to say
new capital date.
And just like that it's going to this new date that essentially grabs the current time from the device
passes it in.
It formats it using this and turns it into a string.
OK.
So having this all in place we should now be able to see when we run our app and it finds a location
that it couldn't provide an address for.
It's going to help us out by just saying hey you know this is the time that that thing occurred.
So let's go ahead and jump in to our emulator here.
I'll say at a new place let's see if we can recreate the situation right.
So we did it on Highland Park if we click and drag and you know of course this time it goes and it grabs
an actual location and look at that.
OK.
This one successfully worked.
So all the information's there but it's really really ugly about how it's represented.
So let's go ahead and do a little bit of tweaking here.
So I've worked with this before and I kind of know how the strings work here like the why why why this
is for the year.
Then we got the month the date the HHC hours and then this is minute.
So I'm just going to recreate this to say capital AIDS capital.
Cole in lower case M M and this does.
Hours and minutes going to space for wise for the year dash to AMS for the month upper case and then
to lower case DS for the date.
And if you're wondering what's the difference between upper and lower case go google simple date format.
There's all sorts of information out there and you may not appreciate this now but dates and times and
programming is really tricky complicated stuff and using things like a simple data formatter can make
it so much easier to work with if you want to do like AM or PM if you want the dates to have a 0 in
front or not have a zero in front like it sort of handles all those situations.
It's pretty cool.
So to do long press and part of an address so that won't work let's try the other one and look at that
saying that you know 50 70 like so 00 57 so there's a saying this is 12:57 in the morning 20:17 11 19.
OK.
So we're at a pretty good place here.
And you can see that matches up all the time.
That's not my local time right now but that's the time on this device so we know that that's correct
there.
This is pretty good right.
We are able to allow users to add something there.
The one problem that we have here though is if we if the user has added a location it'd be nice when
we hit the back button that would be listed out here.
And right now that is not happening at all.
So we want to go back to our app and we're going to move over to the main activity that Java and we're
going to add a new array list so we already have one that lists all the places we also want to have
one that shows the particular locations right and they have a location object that the user can get
to if they want to go to a certain place so right where we have our first array list we're going to
pass another list.
So let's create one now array list and we're going to have this one be an array list of lat long just
like that and we're going to call this locations and say this is equal to a new array list of location
objects.
So we've got that in place that's looking pretty good here.
It's a array of lat long not locations that's why that was freaking out there.
OK.
So one thing that we're doing right now is we're adding the very first one that says add new place if
we're going to have one in places.
We should also add a new kind of dummy one for locations.
So let's just go ahead and say locations dot ad and we'll just go ahead and pass in a new lat long space
long and we'll just put zero comma zero in there because we're just trying to put an empty wall the
user is never going to go to that place and to talk about that more.
You know we'll go ahead and I'm going to show you in the code how you can get to that.
OK.
So with these in place if we want to be able to access these array lists in a different activity.
Right.
This is in a completely separate class.
We've got to give a proper name to these things and that's going to be something called static.
So we have to say static on both of these.
OK.
And in order to do this we have to do this outside of the class function here.
We got to go and do it up on the top so we're actually going to copy this.
OK.
And we'll paste it up above.
Do the same for locations.
Go ahead and copy and paste that.
Let's make sure we get our 7 colons on each of those.
Now rather than doing that let's just go ahead and set them straight way up.
It's not like we're putting any data on there so I'm just going to cut these entirely paste that right
there and then now we should have access to these not only in this activity but we can get them in the
maps activity and just to kind of prove this you know if we type out somewhere locations.
Now I'm going to feel like an idiot if we can't get to this.
Let's try places.
So it's currently not showing it.
Maybe it needs a second update here.
Let's go ahead and keep moving forward.
And if we run into more issues we'll talk about how we can fix that.
So with all of this in place let's go ahead and talk about a little bit of extra work that we've got
to do down here with our address right.
So we've done all this stuff to go ahead and add the marker right.
There's a couple of things that we have to do now though is that that's what we want to add this to
our places in our locations and I just remembered what the issue is here and that's that if we want
to get to the places array for example we have to say Main I got to spell it right main activity dot
locations or main activity places and that's going to get it there.
So let's go ahead and first add this to places we're going to say places and we want to add something
new to that so let's just go ahead and add the current address there.
Okay.
Once we have that in place the next thing that we want to do is get to our main activity get to all
of our locations and we also want to add a lat long.
So we'll go ahead and just add whatever the current that long is here.
So that's going to add those things to the array.
And then we also want to make some sort of note to the user to say hey we were able to do something
successfully we want you to know about it so we're going to say TOSed make text and we'll go ahead and
pass this for the context and some sort of string maybe let's say location's saved just like that.
And let's also go ahead and say how long this should be let's keep it short here and then we'll do a
dot show on that.
So this way there's some sort of user feedback to say hey you know we were able to successfully add
this.
Now the next thing that we've got to do is we've got to update the array adapter that list view to know
about it because if we just go ahead and add these things but we don't you know update the list view
we're going to have issues here.
So let's go back and where we're currently creating our array adapter Let's go ahead and define that
up at the top with other static properties here so we're going to say static paste that in there and
then we'll just say a re-adapt are like that.
Then after doing this we can come back to our maps activity after we've added these two things to both
arrays we can say hey we've got to update this stuff so we're going to say main activity array adapter.
And on this we're going to say Dot notify data set change and that basically says hey go look at the
array one more time.
We've got some new information in there.
We want you to go take a look at it.
OK.
So with that in place let's go ahead and see what this looks like.
So just go ahead and run our app.
I guess I should get the emulator up here.
Ready to roll.
OK so it opens up.
We want to add a new place.
Pick some random place here.
Look at that.
We get locations saved it's.
Dekalb Avenue 1:53 if we hit the back button look at that we've got it in place.
How excellent is that.
Now look what happens if we go ahead and we click on this address and we try to come to the map view
well it doesn't show that location and you might be wondering well why is that.
And let's talk about that.
Well if we go to our code here for the map it does take us to the map.
But when we first got inside it for your let's get to the proper code there.
Right.
We did this big check where we say let's get the intent let's go and get whatever extra they pass through.
And if it's the zero item then we run all the code that's inside of this big thing here.
Right.
But if it's not like what else do we want to do.
Well the else part of the situation is if it's not the very first one that means they're trying to go
to a location.
So we should go ahead and write some code about that.
So the first thing that we got to do is get a proper location.
So let's go ahead and say location and we'll just call this maybe place location and we're going to
have this equal to a new location object and we'll say location manager dot and let's get the GPS provider
OK.
That looks good.
Next thing that we need to do is we need to take this place location and we need to set a latitude to
it.
So we're going to say set latitude now in order to get the latitude it's going to be a little bit of
work here because we've got to reach back into the main activity and we got to grab something from the
locations array and then we've got to get the proper information from that.
So walk with me here we're going to say main activity dot locations right.
This is that list array then we're going to get whatever the current index is inside of that array which
that information comes from the intent.
So we're going to say intent dot get it extra in which that case we've got to provide a name so let's
go make sure we're getting the exact name which is place number.
So go ahead and paste plate number there.
We also have to provide a default in case it doesn't come through.
So we'll put our zero but assuming that all works out we then should be able to on this say Dot and
get to.
For example its latitude.
So that's a really long string of code which basically what it does is says hey we're trying to settle
latitude here.
It reaches back to our main activity gets location's rate gets the correct item and we know that because
of the intent extra that came through and then we get its latitude.
So to do the longitude rather than type all that out this is a perfect example of cop when you should
copy and paste all the places down.
Change this to set longitude.
Know we've got to make sure that here we change this to longitude just like that.
Once that's in place really the last thing that we need to do here is just use this awesome center map
on location function that we've already created.
So we're going to say place location right which we spent all this time creating the next thing that
we're going to pass in here is we need to say what the title is.
So again we're going to produce I'm reaching back here we're going to say main activity not places not
yet.
And this is where we got to get to that intent extra.
So we're going to say intent but get into extra And we've got to go grab for example a place number
one place that in our default will be zero.
Just in case but once we've got that that's actually the string that we need.
We don't even have to do a dot anything after that because we should have it.
OK.
So this should be everything that we need for Apple Let's go ahead and run it.
See what we get when we get our emulator here.
Ready to rock and roll.
It's kind of the big moment of truth for us right.
We've done a lot of work up to this point.
So I will say at a new place.
All right we're in New York.
Let's go.
Up here it was this Central Park that Central Park Zoo.
So we've added a new marker bow bridge.
OK.
So let's go ahead and hit the back button.
Who is showing up there so let's go ahead and tap on bow bridge and look at that.
It shows us bow bridge and that is cool.
OK.
So congratulations you have a fully functional app but there is a glaring piece of this at MIT missing.
So we just had this cool bow bridge right.
Totally awesome we can tap on it takes us to the locations like oh that's really cool.
Well look what happens when we run our app.
One more time.
So we hit the play button here you know.
So this is kind of simulating maybe the user Kloser app went to a different outpolled this one back
open.
Look our location is completely gone.
It's our memorable places are gone.
Like the whole point of this Apple was that we could save memorable places so that we could always get
back to them.
And our app can't do that.
Every time the app opens the data poof disappears that's just gone.
So that's a big glaring thing.
But that is going to be the focus of our next section is how do you store data inside of an Android
app.
I mean store data in that when you open it the next time whether that's a day later a year later or
10 years later that's a little extreme but whatever point in the future you'll be able to get back the
data that you already have.
So a little bit outside of what we're going to do now but we have a whole section dedicated to it so
once we'll learn it will actually come back to this app and add that functionality in here.
So let's go ahead and wrap.
Talk about that in the next section.
Congratulations on doing all this location stuff really proud of you.